[17507. 시간여행자의 실험기록](https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/17507)

Source: N/A
(author: Lawali)


# Problem

You work in a lab, and can warp time. A lab has N ≤ 100,000 sets and a notebook. The set S_i contains only one number, i. You bring your phone which is preserved through time warps.

You carry out Q ≤ 100,000 works. A work is composed of saving the current timeline, and then doing one of the four, then resting for one day:

* merge S_a and S_b, then assign a new name S_c. Record (a, b, c) on the notebook.
* find the set that contains q, and record its name on your phone.
* warp the time to k days ago.
* warp to the j-th saved time.

Output the contents of your phone and the notebook after all works.

# Solution Sketch

The whole timeline can be represented by a rooted tree. We will first build the whole tree, without thinking about your phone and the notebook. Each vertex contains one of the following information:

* merge S_a and S_b to S_c, then record (a, b, c) on the *next line* of the notebook.
* find the set that contains q, and record its name on the *i-th line* of your phone.
* don't record anything.

Warping to the j-th saved time is easy. To warp to k days ago, whenever you make a new vertex, build a sparse table starting from there, just like the LCA data structure.

Now you actually start recording on your phone (notebook is easier, so omitted), but since you know which goes to which line, you can just traverse the tree however you want. So we do a DFS, using disjoint set with history information (just like "offline dynamic connectivity") to manage and revert the sets.

# Commentaries


