[16238. 독수리](https://www.acmicpc.net/problem/16238)

Source: ?


# Problem

You are an eagle, who wants to eat some sheep living in a 1-dimensional arrangement of N ≤ 1,000 cells. The following events happen each day:

* You have two options. You can fly from the left and eat all the sheep in index i. Then all sheep in index 1, ..., i-1 run away in fear. Or you can fly from the right and eat all the sheep in index i. Then all sheep in index i+1, ..., N run away.
* After that, one sheep in each cell (that contains at least one sheep) is eaten by a wolf.

What is the maximum amount of sheep you can eat?

# Solution Sketch

A series of observations lead to a surprisingly simple solution.

First, assume that even an empty cell can lose one sheep by a wolf, so that it has -1 sheep (and -2 sheep in the next day, and so on). This doesn't affect the answer because there's no reason to attack an empty cell anyway.

Next, note that if you pick some k cells to attack, then the order doesn't matter as long as you make sure no one runs away. It will always lead to the same number of total sheep. This was not true because an empty cell was not supposed to lose a sheep, but thanks to the above observation it became true. Now, this means that you will always eat (sum of the k cells) - (1 + ... + k-1) sheep, no matter the order.

Finally, assume that the sheep do not run away, because you'll still eat (sum of the k cells) - (1 + ... + k-1) sheep even if they don't run away.

Therefore, you just need to keep choosing the cell with most sheep, until there are no more cells with positive number of sheep.

# Commentaries
